To help the institution and students/staff out by making explicit the legal framework the institutions are built upon, in the case of legal troubles

So the students can easily find what acts are relevant and look them up to see what they contain

protects the employee/student in the case that the organisation breaches any of the regulations

The education and the polytechnic acts serve to outline the responsibilities, duties and obligations of not just the institution but also the students and the staff.

The industry training act provides the recognition and funding for industry training organisations to develop and maintain skills for the job given. Example: forklift licenses for forklift drivers

To provide a balanced framework to secure the health and safety of workers.
The health and safety act protects the everyday worker. The workers should take precautions for their own safety and not put others in danger

The copyright act protects content creators and organisations invoved in the production of creative content from theft of intellectual property, and in paricular for a tertiary setting, plagiarism

The privacy act is about collecton and disclosure of personal information, stops



## Worksafe functions

* Workplace assessments - mostly proactive and planned, not triggered by reports of serious harm or complaints
* 80% of visits are to high risk industries, including agriculture, forestry, construction and manufacturing
* Deal with reports of risk and harm. Anyone can report workplaces to Worksafe 24 hours a day and Worksafe will respond appropriately

* Investigations - Investigations are done to determine the causes of harm in th eworkplace, and whether action has to or needs to be taken to prevent future harm. Also whether action, up to and including prosecution if that is appropriate.
* Provide guidace to workplaces about what health and safety regulations need to be followed and how hazards can best be dealt with. Worksafe publishes a bunch of standards each year through collaboration with workers and businesses.
*
