## CPU Architecture

_Continuing from slide 37_

### Processor Pipelining
Running multiple instructions at once, each at different stages of the machine cycle

### Parallel Processing
### Processor Hyperthreading
Makes each core appeaar to have two cores so a four core processor can behave as if it has 8 cores

### CPU Speed
* Clock signal in computer is regular, co-ordinates everything
* In normal system Northbridge connected to CPU by FSB
* Say CPU is at 3.2ghz, FSB is at 200mhz, clock multiplier is 16x
* Different CPU speeds achieved by varying either FSB frequecy or CPU multiplier (see graphic in ppt)

### Cache Memory
* Stefan told anecdote about vogels bread, first checks pantry, then checks freezer, then checks chest freezer, and if not has to travel 18km to Te Puke to buy bread so stocks up. Puts some in pantry, puts some in each freezer. Has a cache of bread in different places that can be accessed at differetn speeds
* Computer can access data from RAM through Northbridge but that is slow. So instead have 3 levels of cache in the CPU.
* Level 1 fastest, level 3 slowest. RAM slower still. Level 3 used to be separate chip between processor and RAM.
* level 1 might be 32kb, level 2 256k, level 8mb, RAM 8GB

* In reality for level 1, there is 32k for data, 32k for instruction. And four of each of those. One for each core.
* LEvel 3 supports all cores.
* Some computers (Especially servers) can have a fourth level

### Speedstep Technology
Core speed changes based on what is needed at the time. Intel Speedstep Technology.

Looked at newer Intel CPUs and mobos briefly

## SoC System on a Chip

* Has more components than just CPU. OFten in mobile computing devices.
* Very efficient, doesn't need fan and doesn't use much power

# System Unit 2
Volatile vs non-volatile

## System memory hierarchy
1. CPU registers
1. CPU Cache
2. Main Memory - RAM
3. Virtual Memory - part of the disk used as extension of physical memory

## Random Access
All memory addresses are as fast as each other, there's no fixed sequence.

## Read Only Memory (ROM)
### System BIOS ROM
* Basic Input/Output System
* Contains System Fireware
* Firmware - Hardware that contains software
* Used to be unable to be changed. WORM - write once read many
* Until programmable ROM (PROM) which could be encoded once
* Then EPROM, can be erased used UV lights that erase the data through a little window, that's usually covered by a sticker.
* Then Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM, can be overwritten still in motherboard. When first came out, was a virus that overwrote the BIOS until manufacturer changed the way it's written to.

RAM is written to billions of time in its life, ROM a few times, sometimes never.

### System BIOS Software
1. Power on Self Test (POST) - makes sure everything is working
2. Setup - lets user setup the BIOS configuration/system configuration, system settings and date and time, stored in CMOS.
  * system contains RTC - real time clock
  * Can change boot order, clock speed
  * CMOS = battery backed up RAM. Small amount of memory by the BIOS to save system settings. Since RAM is volatile, needs a battery to store the data more permanently
3. Bootstrap Loader - Finds operating system, searching HDDs, DVDs, USBs for one.
4. Basic instructions for basic device support, keyboard, video, HDD etc. so things can be outputted and inpputted before the OS boots and provides full support with drivers

### UEFI
Unified Extensible Firmware Interface
More modern version of BIOS. Will be discussed more in Operating Systems

Up to slide 12 - RAM
